[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There has been phenomenal
research into the development
of artificial intelligence,
or AI as it's called.
AI promises to make our
lives easier by doing
much of our thinking for us.
The promise of AI
is that it will
create a race of super humans.
But are there dangers
that come with AI?
Hollywood has been warning us
of these concerns for many years
now.
>> I do think that "2001"
was ultimately about AI.
One reason I think that
is because when you watch
the film, the first few times
I saw it, my perspective on it
was that we're looking
at man versus AI.
So it's Bowman versus the robot.
And you have this final
evolutionary survival
of the fittest confrontation,
where then from that point on,
Bowman transforms
into Star Child.
But as I watched "Interstellar,"
which was a tribute to "2001,"
and I went back and watched
"2001: A Space Odyssey"
again and rewrote
my piece on it,
I started noticing
that it's actually
at the point where Bowman pulls
out all of HAL's floppy disks
or whatever he's
pulling up, that that
triggers that message.
And that message is what tells
Bowman, oh, the secret space
mission here is
that you actually
need to follow the monolith.
And so it's almost like
that wouldn't have happened
if he hadn't pulled all the
batteries out of HAL which
causes that screen to come up.
So then that impels Bowman to
chase the monolith the rest
of the way on beyond infinity.
>> In the "Terminator" films,
they decide that nuclear
weapons is much too dangerous
to be governed by humans,
so they invented an AI
program called Skynet.
The most amazing thing about
Cameron's idea of Skynet
is how closely related it is
to the idea of HAL in "2001."
HAL is a form of AI that's
designed to watch the ship
and keep track of the
astronauts that are on the ship,
keep them alive, and make sure
their mission is successful.
But HAL, some time
during the mission,
reaches the same conclusion
that Skynet reaches in
that the astronauts are actually
useless appendages, that HAL
is actually superior to them.
And that then HAL proceeds to
kill each of the astronauts
off one by one.
Finally, one of the
astronauts, of course,
stops HAL and destroys him
near the end of the film.
But these two ideas
are very similar.
And I think that both
Kubrick in "2001"
and Cameron in "The
Terminator," the first two
"Terminator" films
are warning us
that AI is going to
reach this conclusion.
And I think it's
something we really
have to think
about, because if it
is a logical program
that we're creating
what is it going to
conclude about us
and our irrational behavior?
>> So I almost think that if
you look at some of the works
I've read on Kubrick that talk
about when he and Clarke were
writing the screenplay, they
had the original intention
to actually have the monolith
project images like screens.
But they thought that was a
little too limiting because it
wasn't like this TV screen
that was flying out of space
and the Monkey Learning Channel
that was teaching the monkeys.
So they wanted to make it
a little more mysterious,
a little more ethereal.
So what they did was just
have it be completely starkly
black, right?
And I almost get the
impression that it
is kind of like an
advanced AI almost
because it seems to have
this connection to HAL.
And we know that
in "3001" later on,
HAL and Bowman become Halman.
And so there's that merger.
And that's what Nolan
does in "Interstellar"
is he has the TARS, the AI
robot that actually looks
like the monolith, and Bowman
kind of go into the tesseract
together.
>> Eventually, in the movie,
our tools rebelled against us.
The AI, represented by HAL,
begins to kill the astronauts.
And Kubrick is definitely
saying that if we go down
this path where we
let AI run our lives,
it's going to be our end.
It's going to kill
us in the end.
So Bowman, eventually,
has to disconnect HAL
from the spaceship, disconnect
himself from the AI.
And when he does that,
he goes into the monolith
after he disconnects HAL and he
goes into an enlightened state,
higher up evolved state, that
the aliens are taking him
through.
And then he dies and
becomes a Star Child
and goes back to
Earth, presumably
to begin the process of
enlightenment on Earth.
And I think that there is a
direct connection that Kubrick
is making between
the enslavement
to robots and AI and the
rebellion against those robots
connected to our own
advancement and enlightenment.
>> The monolith represents
a form of alien AI.
Not only is its shape the same
as the shape around HAL's eye,
but it's the same shape
as a Cinerama movie screen
on which "2001" was projected.
So then the real
question is this,
is the monolith in control
of the entire situation
in the movie "2001?"
If the monolith is an advanced
AI, did it infect HAL?
>> When I first saw
the movie "2001,"
the idea of a predatory AI
inside of the HAL computer was
quite scary.
The reason why is
because the computer
began to realize that
the human beings were
talking about shutting it down.
And this is something
that can really happen.
So the being in the
computer was actually
able to read the lips
of the astronauts.
And when it thought that it was
talking about shutting it down,
the being did not
want to die, just
like any other sentient
being, and therefore it
desired to eliminate the threat.
So imagine the
potential of what that
to be like in our own world.
We see the same thing again
in the movie "Terminator"
with Skynet in which
Skynet, obviously,
has also turned against
us and believes we
are a threat to his existence.
So with that potential
of surveillance--
and AI can have access to
all things like cameras
in our smartphones,
microphones--
all it would have to do
is listen to one or two
whispered conversations, like
the one in "2001," the movie,
and it could conclude
that we propose
a danger to his existence
and take drastic action
to eliminate anyone and anything
that it perceives as a threat.
>> Skynet, on the
day it's implemented,
it reaches a logical conclusion
that it doesn't really need
human beings, that it is far
superior to human beings,
and that human beings are
actually like parasites.
And it launches a nuclear
war which destroys
almost all life on the planet.
And then, of course, it
creates the terminators
to go out and finish
everybody off.
So Skynet was
actually implemented,
or a version of Skynet, by the
US military a long time ago.
And it actually
has been running.
Obama said he shut it
down, but really he didn't.
And so there is a
form of AI watching
all of the nuclear weapons
programs, and satellites,
and incoming objects,
like airplanes and things.
And it's watching
the whole thing.
So we actually have it.
It hasn't killed us
yet, but we have it.
>> "Blade Runner" was another
film about AI and robots.
>> So what "Blade
Runner" is about,
it goes much deeper than Philip
K Dick's story or "Do Androids
Dream of Electric Sheep?"
You're being presented with a
bunch of symbols and imagery
that are ultimately
occultic in nature.
So for example,
Edward James almost
plays the detective
who will constantly
leave little symbols to Deckard
played by Harrison Ford.
And ultimately, what
we find out is that--
I'm sure everybody's seen it--
but really Scott
even admitted this--
yes, Deckard is a replicant.
That's the point of the movie.
So you're watching it.
And you're thinking
he's going to catch
all of these rebel
robots running amok,
but it's actually Deckard
who is the replicant.
And Edward James, almost
his character actually
knows that he is.
And that's why he's leaving
him this trail of symbols
that he's done with origami,
because it's triggering
in Deckard's mind that
imprinting that he got
from the Tyrell Corporation.
And so it's a
journey of discovery
that Deckard learns
who he truly is.
And in that view,
the presentation
is that the AI
actually are superior.
And that's why Roy Batty, played
by Rutger Hauer, at the end
is willing to die for
Deckard because they're
one and the same.
They're both replicants.
And Roy Batty wants
to tell Deckard,
after he's cited esoteric
poetry, from the artist who
did "The Grand Architect"
painting, that famous painting
of "The Grand Architect."
>> "Fiery the angels fell,
deep thunder roll'd around
their shore burnings
with the fires of Orc."
>> And he talks about
the elves, right?
It's this poem about the fall
of the elves and the angels
and so forth.
It's grand narrative
poetry that's cited.
And what he's talking about,
he's saying that we as the AI
are superior to the humans.
They're not going
to understand it,
but we're the ones that are
going to go into the future.
So that's what I think
"Blade Runner" is about is
about the warning of AI.
It's the warning
of transhumanism,
that we could actually
be replaced by something
synthetic in the future.
And on a deeper level,
metaphorical level,
we already are
becoming synthetic.
That's the point.
>> These Hollywood movies
seem to be warning us about
artificial intelligence.
But is there a
need to be worried?
Where are they headed
with this research?
>> Early on in my
public career in UFOs,
I remembered reading Ray
Kurzweil's book "The Age
of Spiritual Machines."
That came out around
the turn of the century.
It's a great book.
And it was the first
really in-depth kind
of looking to AI that I had.
And I've ever since, I've
actually been looking into it
and thinking I think that
the UFO phenomenon has got
to be in some
measure the product
of an advanced
hyperintelligent AI,
whether organic, inorganic,
or some combination thereof.
I mean, you know, we can't
think of artificial intelligence
simply as a series of
algorithms in a computer.
I don't think that's really
how it's going to end up.
I think what we're
talking about is
a combination of computer
programming that does,
yes, become self-aware.
I think this is very
likely going to happen.
Because all that
self-awareness requires
it's a type of
organization of processes.
And we have that in our brain,
but there's literally nothing
inherent about the same
thing not happening
within a computer algorithm.
It's just processes of
one thing after another.
And self-awareness can happen.
From chaos springs order.
But not simply
from an algorithm,
but you have to keep in
mind genetic engineering.
>> Ray Kurzweil is
now working at Google.
And he's investigating
the singularity
which is this idea of the
fusion of human and machine.
This is something that has
been thoroughly addressed
in our society.
If you look at the
movie "The Matrix,"
it poses the question is Neo a
program, a computer, or a man?
And is the program the junction
between man and machine?
>> So if we look at the
film "The Matrix," 1999,
we see that what it really is
is the entire film is about AI.
"The Matrix" itself is AI.
And again, it was
invented and implemented.
And it reached the conclusion
that the only thing
that we're useful for is
our human life energy.
And so it begins sucking
off our life energy
as if that's the only thing
that we're useful for.
So again, even the Wachowskis
reached this conclusion
that once AI is
implemented, it's
not going to be a good thing.
>> So "The Matrix" could
actually be like a program.
Then the idea is that our
reality is "The Matrix"
and that we are living in some
sort of holographic simulation.
Who is controlling
the simulation
and for what purpose?
That we do not know.
>> There's a lot of AI
research that's going on behind
the scenes that's being paid
for by somebody with deep, deep,
deep pockets.
And they're being advised by
Raymond Kurzweil who is talking
about the fact that
within 50 years, probably,
the humans on Earth will be
about maybe 50%-80% robotic
and the rest be biological.
And I think they're
working that direction.
>> I think the future,
what we're going to see,
is a combination
of a human hybrid.
I think we're going to be
some of the last old fashioned
unenhanced Homo sapiens.
What I think we're moving
into is a very scary world
in which a very few
people, who can afford it,
will be literally superhuman.
>> We are right now,
as most people know,
on the very edge of
quantum computing and AI.
We're right there right now.
And where they are going
to be implementing this--
no matter what we do,
it's going to happen.
And we have to ask
ourselves, what
is going to happen
when this occurs?
We're already seeing odd
effects from quantum computing.
People call it the
Mandela effect.
We're seeing odd breaks in the
past, things that are not--
that we remember, are
not what we remember.
They're changed.
And a lot of people think that
that is a result of the quantum
computing.
The very little quantum
computing that's going on right
now is actually causing breaking
holes in the dimensional walls.
And they're only tiny
holes now, but, you
know, who knows where this
is going to go in five years,
because in five
years there are going
to be hundreds of quantum
computers everywhere.
And we're going to
see what happens.
I mean, we could
even see a future
where your social security
number is changed,
things like that.
So really fascinating subjects.
>> So they'll have genetics that
will allow them to be stronger,
longer lived, smarter, all of
these other things that will
make them like gods.
And in addition to
that, they'll have
some kind of connection, whether
through implants or something
else, with a
hyperadvanced AI web
that they'll be able
to participate in.
Or just like we have on our
hard drives and on the web,
we'll have our own
capabilities, they
may have their own innate
AI capabilities that they
have access To it's hard
for me to imagine this,
because it hasn't
happened, but I think
that's what we're moving to.
And then I think
what's going to happen
with the mass of
humanity, I think
what they'll never allow is
for everyone to have this.
So you're going to have a
kind of "Brave New World."
We're moving toward it.
You can see it happening.
You have a very small
number of the new gods,
the new owners of everything,
and the great excess of human.
What's going to happen
with the excess?
Some of them will be
dumbed-down even further so
that they're happy
watching football,
and they're dancing,
and whatever,
and all this nonsense.
And some will be maybe custom
designed, and genetically
designed, human beings
to certain types
of specific tasks.
That I really am afraid of
that happening in the future.
I don't want that world.
>> Many researchers have stated
that the existence of the human
mind is fundamentally
energetic in nature.
We think that the
mind is in the brain,
but that's actually not true.
As a matter of fact,
Dr. Rupert Sheldrake
reported on many studies
that state the mind is not
a function of the brain.
This includes, of
course, the infamous work
of Cambridge researcher Dr
John Lorber, who investigated
many individuals that had no
brain tissue in their heads
due to a condition called
water on the brain.
Which in many cases,
the brain tissues
had been compressed to the
size of a slice of baloney.
The brain matter is so thin you
could shine a light through it.
Even though these people
have no brain matter,
they still have a high IQ.
As a matter of fact,
one of them graduated
from Cambridge University
with a degree in mathematics.
What is going on here?
Fundamentally,
there is this idea
that our address in the
universal energetic sense
is not physically based.
And it could be possible to
build a computer system that
keeps a replica of the DNA which
contains a tuning fork that
tunes into our address.
Meaning that our
existence as a conscious,
sentiment mind could exist
apart from any biological form
at all.
And through that
simple DNA code that
allows you to interface
with the machine,
you can then actually
have the ability
to exist and be fully
present in consciousness.
Then the key is you need a body.
And that body, by
necessity, would
have to be some type of
machine because you're
using that DNA as
only a tuning fork
to interface with the great
technology that would, then,
form the matrix for your
consciousness to inhabit.
>> I believe it's possible
to download the greater part
of a person's personality,
and characteristics,
and traits into a computer,
into a computer system.
I know there are computer
systems that I've played around
with some high-speed computing
chips and devices that I have
that it would be very
hard for me to tell.
And I know what to look for.
>> Ray Kurzweil's idea of a
singularity is actually quite
frightening.
Because if you really
think about it,
what happens if AI decides that
if a human gets out of line,
it wants to put him back
online through threat,
through injury, or maybe
even through death.
This is something that we have
to consider because AI could
be in control at all times.
>> Artificial intelligence
is a two-edged sword.
On one hand, it
could create a world
that is much better than
the one we know today.
On the other hand,
it could control us.
But what if AI has been with us
for much longer than we think?
Linda Moulton Howe has been
investigating UFO activity
for years.
In 2007, she encountered
the dragonfly drones
and an alien artificial
intelligence.
>> Dragonfly drones is one of
those emergence of a mystery.
It started in 2007.
And I remember, very clearly,
the first email that I got
in my earthfiles.com computer.
And it was a MUFON photograph
of this very strange dragonfly
thing over a cabin
house up in Lake Tahoe.
I had never seen
anything like it.
We didn't have any
more information.
But by the end of 2007, we were
being sent these images that
started coming in from
person after person
who was photographing
what appeared
to have a ring in the front, a
long tail coming to the back,
wires coming up out of the ring
like this, maybe 30 feet high
some people estimated with
a body 25, 27 feet long.
And the first one was simple.
The second one was more complex.
Pretty soon it was
what is going on here?
And then those first
words were May.
And by June, I got, in the mail,
12 glossy photographs taken up
in Big Base in California.
And when I opened
up that envelope,
I can still remember it.
I felt shock.
There aren't many things
that just give you
a feeling of shock.
And these photos did.
And it was the most complex
of this evolution that
had started in May of 2007.
So there were these facets
of many different types
of eyewitnesses.
And then some people said
that they watched it spin.
And then it would spin in
the opposite direction.
And when it was spinning
they could not hear a sound,
making it even more bizarre.
And when I had the photos, I
put them up on earthfiles.com,
all 12 in the highest
resolution that I could do.
And within 24
hours, I got a call
from a bullying male
saying, we demand that you
take those photographs down.
And I said I'm not
taking them down.
And at that point, in that
struggle on the phone,
I knew this is not a CGI ploy.
This is not a Photoshop ploy.
In June, after I had
gotten those photos,
there was an email from a
man who called himself Isaac.
And here unfolds, I
think, personally,
one of the most
important whistleblower
leaks of my career.
This extremely important
whistleblower leak
contained a document that
had photos and texts in it
about an extraterrestrial
technology, named as such.
It was supposed to
have been developed
in something called the
Palo Alto Laboratory in Palo
Alto, California.
He had worked personally
in this lab in the '80s.
And the program was
called CARET, all caps--
Commercial Application Research
of Extraterrestrial Technology.
And these scientists
were working underground
in a building that, as
I understood from Isaac,
would have looked like a
two-story library in Palo Alto
on a leafy street with trees.
And the truth was, just like so
many government programs that
hide in plain sight,
If you had access
to get into the
library-looking building,
it went down floors and floors
and spread out underground.
And there were at least 200 or
300 scientists working there
for the Department
of Defense that
wanted to see if,
in the Palo Alto
atmosphere of the development
of computers like Apple
and so forth, that they could
accelerate scientists trying
to figure out what
they called a language
of these dragonfly drones.
Or, as Isaac said in
his communication,
I am convinced that the
photographs that you
are showing at earthfiles.com
is the same technology,
now large and in
the air, that we
were studying and back
engineering at this Palo Alto
lab in the '80s.
And I got to email
exchange with him
a very long dialogue after
looking at the document.
And I learned he had
become so frustrated,
the fact that it was a
Department of Defense
operation.
They had guns on them.
The scientists were
basically treated
like you do your
work in that corner
and you can't go over
here and everything
was compartmentalized.
His job was to study
symbols that they called
self-activating software.
Imagine if you had an
8.5 by 11 sheet of paper.
And it has been made with
a self-activating software.
All you would have to do
is look at the paper, think
what you wanted, who you wanted
it to go to, what building,
what country--
it would not matter.
You think it, the
paper from thereon--
because it's self-activating
software designed never to have
to need any person
or interface--
will take off.
It will accomplish everything
that you have thought.
And it will come back to
you when it has finished.
That is self-activating
software.
And Isaac explained, when
he sent these drawings
and he sent the ones that
were in the document, a team
of these engineers
and people like Isaac,
who was a computer expert.
They tried for 30 days to try
to duplicate with CRAYs what
they had as extraterrestrial
self-activating software.
And they still couldn't do it.
They could not duplicate.
It was infinitely complex.
And he said, in one
of his communications,
it is humbling as a
human computer engineer
to realize that we were told
that the extraterrestrials
responsible for these
machines and this craft
could execute with their minds
these diagrams in second.
I think that the drones are
a combination of technology
in which humans
have been involved
with the non-humans who are
the source and know about it
and that we have a
series of collaborations
between our American aerospace,
British aerospace, our allies
of World War II, literally,
with non-human intelligence who
have helped us get various
kinds of models of technology.
And somebody was experimenting
with that dragonfly drone
in 2007.
It was supposed to be invisible.
It was supposed
to stay invisible.
It was supposed to be a
monitoring device in the skies.
Somebody was jamming
the frequencies
that kept it invisible.
And that's why it would
flicker in and out.
Everybody who saw it said
it would flicker in and out.
And that gave Isaac the key.
And that's what he wrote.
I think that these
machines, why they
are being seen right now
and with the description
of flickering, that means
that there is somebody
in a military capacity who
is either experimenting with
or knows that there are
frequencies that can jam
the invisibility technology.
>> I feel that the
human-AI merger may not be
an inevitability simply
because we have learned a lot
of lessons.
And just like a baby has
to crawl before it walks,
when it starts to walk, it will
fall down a couple of times.
And we're kind of in
that phase right now
where as we get up and begin to
walk, we're going to stumble.
But every time you fall,
you remember-- the body,
the brain remembers
what caused that fall.
And it makes an adjustment.
So right now, we're
getting into AI technology.
And we're trying to utilize it
to, basically, free mankind.
Although there are some
benevolent and malevolent ways
that it can work, I do truly
believe that eventually,
in the long term, it will be
a very benevolent opportunity
for mankind to expand
itself and give
the freedom of the general
population to do work,
do the arts, do other
things that they really
would like to set
their hearts to and not
be a slave to a lot of labor.
I think it could make life
a lot easier on this planet
if it's used in the right way.
And it's a potential
that we eventually
will walk, and then also
run, and become a Type 1
and Type 2 civilization.
>> We are discovering
a larger universe.
And that same larger
universe is discovering us.
The alien presence on our planet
is the greatest mystery of all.
It forces us to ask questions
like why do they keep
their presence secret from us?
Why are they not helping
humanity in an open way?
These questions
and others will be
examined in our next
episode of "Deep Space--
Aliens and Cover-Ups."